Moose
The Moose is Loose

1969 State Wrestling Champion of Oregon 191lb weight class.

Rodeo

Monk

Namstock

Truck in parking lot

Roller skater

Jamaica?

Ten commandments of the bong circle.

Meeting in Krung Thep.

Death in St. Ann

Lum Choop

25 Jesus did many other things as well. If every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.

------------------

Our compound in Nam has this Top Secret Classified area, surrounded by barbed wire and MPs. It was one of those three-letter organizations. The army branch of the NSA is called ASA. Those letters are not to be spoken, upon threat of ending up in LBJ (Long Binh Jail, humor not lost on the presidential reference), so, we have to call it XYZ. What a joke. Speaking of jokes, my friend Darryl asks, "What is the difference between the Army and the Boy Scouts?" Answer: "The Boy Scouts has adult leadership."

Moose is one the MPs guarding the XYZ compound. Really, he is the leader of the whole company, though just a low-ranking enlisted man. The captain, the theoretical leader, would be laughed out of the Boy Scouts. He wore paratrooper pants and carried a swagger stick, maybe trying to imitate Patton. I would be interested in hearing what my psychiatrist at the Substitute for Living would have to say about him.

Shortly before Nam, Moose was the 191 pound high-school state wrestling champion of Oregon. He also rode rodeo. After the war, he organized Namstock, where quite a few guys from our unit gathered for the Christmas holidays, because none of us fit into society after returning home. Thai sticks were in plentious supply, as we had mailed home a ton of it by using official U.S. Government top secret envelopes. We all attended the VVAW (Vietnam Veterans Against the War) rally downtown and threw our medals in the fire. As we said our good-byes, Moose says to me, "I'll see you in Bangkok." I had no plans to visit there, but I did like those Thai sticks quite a bit.

We were stationed with the Thai soldiers. Besides Americans, there were Thai, Canadian, Australian, and South Korean soldiers in Nam. Lung Choop (Uncle Choop) was Moose's counterpart in the Thai group. The Thai's would come over in planes just loaded with duffle bags filled with Thai sticks. Moose would buy a duffle bag for us for $90. Whenever a new duffle bag came in we would clean the weed off the sticks and repackage some for personal use, the rest for the official U.S. Government envelopes, which didn't require stamps or anything.


