My first night at the Institute of Living, lying in my new bed, I hear this blood-curdling scream coming from somewhere in the facility, which is filled with hundreds of troubled souls. I sat up, slumped over with head held in hands, wondering how in the world I ended up here.

The psychiatrist says I am angry with my mother. I don't think it's that. What about the war, the bad LSD trip, the loss of hope? Nope, just mom. He makes me angry because he keeps bringing that up, and he can't even speak good English. But he does give me lots of medications. 

One day I sit next to this older guy in our locked ward, and I ask how long have you been here. 30 years. Wow, it makes me think will I be here for 30 years, for life, lining up to take the mind-numbing meds three times a day. They also put out bread and peanut butter before bedtime. I wonder if that is part of the treatment for my diagnosed anger issues.

Me and a friend of mine from high school had this life philosphy: It's little things that make me happy. That is still true today. There are some little things from this era that are big. One of my friends, who actually works in mental health, calls this place the Substitute for Living, instead of the IOL. That gives me a chuckle.

A card from my sister has a small note at the bottom from her college roommate. It says, "I hope you feel better soon." That gives me a little smile.

One of my college friends was in a serious accident a couple years earlier, and he comes to visit. They let him in the ward, and all the patients look down the hall as the buzzer rings to let him in the door. Because of the accident, my friend walks very slowly, with a cane. He is often mistaken as being drunk. No one could take their eyes off of him. He sits down next to me, and says, "Do you want to go to Cape Cod and see the sunrise." That hits me harder than electric shock treatment. The sunrise was amazing, too. Soon, I check out of the Substitute for Living.

By the way, four years later I meet for the first time my sister's Japanese roommate, who wrote the note. We are still married today, for 46 years as of this writing. There's something about those little things.



